= AlphaCore

AlphaCore is an obstrusive JavaScript library that aims at fixing, implementing
and emulating standard JavaScript and DOM in broken and old browsers.

The initial idea was to create a compatibility library, permitting developers
to write JavaScript and DOM as defined by the ECMAScript and the W3C. This means
an obstrusive framework that transparently adds support for missing or broken
standard methods like addEventListener() or querySelectorAll() using a standard
API.

Part or most of AlphaCore should be optional in standard compliant browsers,
like IE9, while still necessary for older browsers.


== Why?

Why do we use JavaScript librairies at all? Because Internet Explorer's JScript
sucks. It lacks complete support for the DOM Event or even the DOM Element
object. We thus rely on JavaScript librairies to ease our pain.

IE8 eventually introduced support for the DOM Element, meaning we could use
Element.prototype to implement missing DOM Event methods for instance. The
problem was IE6 and IE7 do not support this. I thus started hacking and found
a way to emulate an Element prototype and have standard methods like
getElementById() to always return extended elements.

Since it just worked I continued and implemented DOM Events, querySelectorAll,
and more, so that I would have all the latest features to work on older
browsers, that are still widely used.

It works in all browsers I’ve tested so far (it may also work with older releases):

- Internet Explorer 6+
- Firefox 2+
- Opera 9.5
- Safari 3+
- Google Chome


== DOM prototypes in Internet Explorer before IE8

The prefered way to extend objects in JavaScript is throught objects' prototype.
JavaScript is all about prototypes. Problem is Internet Explore doesn't implement
any DOM prototypes (eg. Element, Event) before IE8. AlphaCore emulates the
Element and Event objects when they're undefined, so that all you have to do
when you want to add a <tt>hide</tt> method to all elements is adding it to
<tt>Element.prototype</tt>.

For instance:

 Element.prototype.hide = function() {
   this.style.display = 'none';
 }

=== Extending elements

Elements won't be extended automatically, which forces you to manually
extend them with methods like <tt>$</tt>. AlphaCore does the job for you
almost everywhere by having +document.getElementById+ or
+elm.getElementsByTagName+ (among others) to always return elements that have
already been extended for you.

For instance the following should work:

 document.getElementById('dialog').hide();

=== Extending element attributes (which are elements themselves)

There is a limitation to automatic extend: we can overwrite methods that return
an element or a collection of element but we can't, for performance reasons,
extend attributes like +parentNode+, +nextSibling+, etc. It would cause the
whole tree to be extended at once, and there would be bugs anyway elements
added to the DOM with innerHTML not being extended, etc.

AlphaCore proposes two solutions to this problem:

- manually extend the attributes with <tt>$(element.parentNode)</tt> or
  <tt>Alpha.$(element.parentNode)</tt>.
- use the Element.prototype.get() method which returns extended attribute elements.

Example:

 element.get('parentNode').addEventListener('click', listener, false);

Since AlphaCore is optional in standard compliant browsers, the get method
may not be available, so you may test for its presence:

 var parent = element.get ? element.get('parentNode') : element.parentNode;
 parent.addEventListener('click', listener, false);

In the end you may use whatever method suits you:

- you don't care about IE 6/7? just use attributes like the DOM says so;
- you care about IE 6/7? use <tt>element.get(attribute)</tt>;
- you care about IE 6/7 but don't want to load Alpha on mobiles? use
  <tt>element.get ? element.get(attribute) : element.attribute</tt>.
- etc.


== DOM Events in Internet Explorer

Internet Explorer before IE9 lacked support for DOM Events, and still relies
on +attachEvent+, +detachEvent+, etc. AlphaCore implements them --in bubbling
mode only since the capture mode seems harder to emulate (but might be doable).

AlphaCore fixes the Event object passed to the listeners --in fact IE doesn't
even pass any Event object. Most of the elements related to the event are fixed:
+target+, +relatedTarget+, +currentTarget+; +this+ is also fixed; as well as
some values, like +pageX+ and +pageY+.

Example:

 document.getElementById('elm').addEventListener('click', function(evt) {
   alert(evt.relatedTarget);
 }, false);

You may also listen and dispatch custom events. This is especially useful for
Ruby on Rails UJS (Unobstrusive JavaScript) where form submitted throught
XMLHttpRequest are supposed to dispatch custom events like +ajax:before+,
+ajax:after+, etc.

 var event = document.createEvent('Event');
 event.initEvent('custom', true, true);
 element.dispatchEvent(event);


== Limitations and concerns

Even thought IE8 has support for getters and setters, older releases do not,
and I don't think it's possible to emulate it without relying on ugly hacks
(see http://alex.dojotoolkit.org/08/jscript/lettable.html ). This fact leads
to some difficulties.

For instance the emulation of Firefox 3.5's +children+, +countElementChild+,
+lastElementChild+, etc. attributes. Those can be emulated throught getters
in most browsers, but not in IE 6/7. Sadly :(

In these browsers we need to rely on the <tt>Element.prototype.get</tt> method.


== Backward compatibility

New browsers come with nice new features, that are obviously lacking in older
releases that we still have to support. One goal of AlphaCore is to implement
(or emulate) these when they're missing.

Here are a few examples: the +JSON+ object, +getElementsByClassName+, 
+querySelectorAll+, etc.


== Explorer Canvas (by Google)

From what I tested, excanvas.js must be loaded in the document's HEAD, and any
script that needs to access canvas elements must be defered, or started on
load. For instance:

 <script type="text/javascript" defer="defer">
 var ctx = document.getElementById('my-canvas').getContext('2d');
 </script>

If excanvas.js is loaded before AlphaCore, created +canvas+ elements will be
automatically extended when calling <tt>document.createElement('canvas')</tt>.

 <script type="text/javascript">
 window.addEventListener('load', function()
 {
   var canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
   var ctx = canvas.getContext('2d');
 }, false);
 </script>


== Authors

- Julien Portalier <ysbaddaden@gmail.com>


== Contribute

Just fork the project on Github, and send me a pull request.

